In this lecture, you'll learn about DNA Center, which is Cisco's SD and controller for enterprise
environments on the slide.
I've put in the definition from Cisco's website about what DNA is DNA.
It stands for digital network architecture.
So DNA enables you streamline operations and facilitate I.T. and business innovation.
Internet based networking IPN Built on Cisco DNA takes a software delivered approach to automating and
a shooting services across your wine and your campus and branch networks.
And I've highlighted in bold the key terms there to what DNA is, is when you're using Cisco software
defined services to help automate your network.
I'll explain more about what intent based networking is on the slides coming up.
Three of the main building blocks, just good DNA and software defined architecture are DNA center,
which will be talking about here and again, the access and the one which I'll cover in the next couple
of lectures.
So DNA Center, it's a Cisco SD and controller which is designed to manage enterprise environments.
It's a campus branch on one as opposed to the APIC controller, which monitors data center environments
with Nexus switches.
You can think of the DNA center as an upgrade to the older enterprise as the controller from Cisco,
which was the APM.
So the DNA center, it runs as an appliance on Cisco Yuk's server hardware, the underlying operating
system is Lennix and it can be clustered for redundancy.
OK, so I mentioned IBM intent based networking earlier, this is a key part of the concept of the software
defined architecture.
So intent based networking transforms a traditional manual network into a controller wide network that
translates to business needs and policies that can be automated and applied consistently across the
network.
The goal is to continuously monitor and adjust network performance to help assure the desired business
outcomes.
Joyce worked through some examples to see what this really means.
First example is going to be a KUOW policy rollout across the entire network.
So what is the intent here?
What do we want to do?
Well, the network policy is first defined, for example, providing guaranteed service to voice and
video across network locations.
Company wide vouchered intent is what we want to do.
If we were going to do this the traditional way, the network team would research and plan implementation
so they would see what the different sites are.
They would see what the different device modules are in each site.
They would look at what the content bandwidth is in each of the locations.
They would do the design to figure out what configuration to be applied to all of the different devices.
So that voice and video were given the guarantee quality that they required.
Different network device models require different commands.
So when you do a query configuration, the config you do is different on routers than it is on switches.
And also it can be different on different models of switches as well.
So in a normal, large network environment, you are going to have different models of equipment and
this makes it complicated to implement your Kyosuke configuration.
The method is very time consuming and also because you are configuring the devices one by one it's liable
to mistake's.
Let's see how it works when we use Internet based networking now with the DNA center.
So when we're doing it this way, the network team creates an application policy and DNA center specifying
voice and video as business relevant applications and wants it so we don't have to do the huge planning.
We don't have to check all our different network devices are we don't have to have different configurations
on different devices, on in different locations.
We can just quickly specify in our application policy that voice and video are business relevant applications.
DNA center will then automatically configure the best practice settings on the network devices.
So we don't need to get involved in the command line.
We don't need to figure out the different commands for the different devices.
DNA center does all of automatically for us, and that can reduce the total deployment time to implement
Kuo's company wide from more than two minutes.
Here is a screenshot of doing that she can see here.
This is on the DNA center of Common ePolicy of the new application policy.
And in there I specify what my business relevant applications are and what my business is.
Relevant applications are the business relevant applications are going to be down.
So you're going to get very limited bandwidth.
So the impact on our actual important applications and our important applications are going to get vehicular
settings they require based on what the best practice settings are.
So, for example, voice on video are going to get put into the priority queue.
OK?
That was our first example.
Looking at another example of policy here, we want to check your traffic flows in the compass.
So for the content, we've got users in Department eight of our users in Department B, they must have
connectivity to other users in their own department and also through the company servers.
They must not have connectivity to users in the other department.
So we would do this with traditional networking over network team would plan on IP subnet, obnoxious
control implementation, and then they would configure each switch individually.
Users are expected to put to stay plugged into the same access part because the way this is controlled
is there on the switches.
We've configured our switch parts with an axis view on when a user plugs into their departments.
OK, just VLAN.
They can then communicate with the server and get an IP address in their subnet and we then go access
control where that control the traffic flows between the different IP subnets to verifying the view
on in an IP address based on Vernette for on their physical location, not who they actually are.
Again, the method is very time consuming, liable to mistakes because we're configuring devices individually
and it does not support mobility because users are expected to be plugged in into a particular physical
part.
When we do this with DNA and are now using Internet based networking, the network team creates a group
based access control policy and DNA center, which specifies Vilo traffic flows.
Users will all gain from and can move to any physical location on campus so they are no longer tied
to a physical part on a switch.
The users are authenticated by Cisco ISP Identity Services engine and assigned a security group TAG
which controls their access, which moves away from being based on the physical part to being based
who the user is and the user can move anywhere within the campus.
Looking at how this is configured in DNA center, so again, we're into policy, we can figure out a
group based access control policy.
We have got our user groups in here.
This is information from the ISP Identity Services Engine, which is Cisco's Tripoli authentication
server.
And then in here, we can specify the yellow traffic flows between the different groups.
OK, so those are a couple of quick examples of how DNA center can make your life easier as an administrator
with the intent based networking, having a look in some more detail now, the user interface for DNA
Center.
So when you log in, you will land on the dashboard up at the top.
You will see this page here and you can see the main parts of DNA are our design policy provision and
assurance design is where you end urban design of your networks of at different sites.
You have that kind of information policy.
You show examples where earlier where we configured a security policy and execute policy provision.
This is where you can set up the configuration on your devices.
Plug and play is also supported as well for when you're first adding a new device to the network.
Talk about that in some more detail later.
And assurance, this is where with the intent based networking.
So you've configured DNA center with good intent.
How you want the network to work assurance insurors is actually working, how you intend it to do so.
Further down on the dashboard, we've also got the tools, tools in here, our discovery where DNA center
will discover your network devices do then get added to the inventory.
You can also look at that in a typology view.
Image repository is where you configure the operating system versions that you want for your different
network devices, command run or you can run SQL commands directly from DNA center.
This makes it more convenient.
And having a log in to the individual devices, you can manage your licenses from DNA center for pushing
configuration to your devices.
You can use templates for as a template.
Add to our network plug and play is when you first add a device to the network, it can automatically
Deanwood as configuration from DNA center and telemetry is used for gathering statistics from your devices
with the statistics that are gathered that helps with the troubleshooting tools and DNA sensor.
So it will report if it if it sees any issues, it can also correlate those statistics between the different
devices.
OK, so let's have a look at each of us starting off with the design.
So when you first install DNA or you're ready to get everything set up, the first thing you want to
do is your network design.
So in here you go, the design page and then the network hierarchy and you specify your different locations
in here.
So you can see in the example, up at the top level, we've got global and then under there we've divided
the continents.
Under there we would have our different offices in each continent, our country as well.
So get your sites added.
Then again, under design, we've got network settings.
So in here we can set properties such as the triple A server for users, administrators, logging into
our network devices, the A.P. server system log, etc. and you can have different settings at different
levels here.
So that's why we had the hierarchy on our sites, because it's possible that there's a different A.P.
server, for example, in Asia than there is in Australia.
So if you can figure something at the global level that will apply to all sites, but unless you overwrite
it with a more specific setting at the site level.
Then we've got discovery, so we want to have all of our network devices to be newin by DNA center,
so as discovery that does not to discover the devices, you can use GDP or you can specify a range of
IP addresses to be scanned.
So you put that information in also and are in the login credentials as well.
The DNA center will then go discover your network devices, log into them and pull information and DNA
center about those network devices.
Once that is being done, you can see the information in the inventory.
You can see in my example here, I've got all these different devices.
It knows the IP address, the mock address, what operating system version is running on that device,
the platforms of the actual hardware model, the serial number, etc..
You can also see your configuration if you push the configuration to the device from here to.
And also, from our information, you can view an anthropology view, so this gives you a nice graphical
representation of Hiva devices in your network are connected to each other.
Another thing we can do with DNA center is we can manage the operating system versions running on our
network devices.
You'll have a different iOS devices in your DNA center.
Already knows about all the different models of equipment that you've got in your network.
It will recommend the U.S. image to use on them.
And in here, under the golden image, you can specify the U.S. image that you want to use and then
DNA center can push that version to your devices and make sure they are running the correct version
of iOS.
Next picture I want to talk about is network plug and play, which I mentioned earlier.
The network plug and play allows your viewers switches and wireless access points to be deployed in
remote offices with zero touch configuration, meaning it doesn't need a network administrator to physically
take the device, the box and configure it.
The way it works is the device is physically installed in minimal office and connected to the network.
It then discovers the DNA center and various methods are available to do this, including the option
for E3 or the NSA.
So what happens is the device gets plugged into the network, then gets to the server and from the DHP
server, it learns its IP address, subnet mask, default gateway.
And another thing is through the IP option for E3, the IP address, the DNA center.
So this is built into Cisco devices.
Now that when you first plug them in, when you first connect them to the network, they will look to
see if they have a DNS and are.
SDI and Control are controlling them.
It can discover the DNA center either through DHP or through DNA.
So if in your DNA you've added a host entry there for PvP server Dalt, your domain name again, the
switch when it comes out, the box is set out by Cisco.
They will look for Horsh name and DNS if it finds it will use it to connect to the DNA center, then
registers with and downloads its configuration from DNA center.
So that ensures consistent configuration of your remote office devices with no need for a network engineer
on site.
The way that we used to do it is when you ordered a new era switch, a wireless access point, it would
have to be sent to the physical location the network engineer is in.
They would then take the box, connect to do the configuration and then ship it to the final site and
it would need somebody there to plug it in as well.
Now, you don't need to go through those two steps.
It can be just shipped directly to its final location, plugged in.
It will connect to DNA center and it will download its configuration from there.
So it makes sure that you've got that correct configuration on there also saves you time and money.
Next thing is assurance assurance guarantees that the infrastructure is doing what you intended it to
do, the DNA sent or received information from all of the different network devices or your switches,
etc. Also the IIS, the Tripoli server, etc. and DNA center has got a built in correlation engine which
can identify over 150 different types of network and client issues.
And because it's getting all this information from your different devices, it can correlate between
them and if it sees that things are related but is going to give it better information to report to
you as well.
The DNA center then reports the problem and it will also provide recommended remediation options.
So looking at an example of got we're now on the assurance page in DNA Center, we can see an overall
summary of the network health.
And also on the main page, we will see the top 10 issues.
And you can see here one of the issues is the USPSTF adjacency is filled on one of our writers.
So we can then click on the link there and I will drill down further and we can see there further details.
And it also gives us the remediation, which is first up, check that we can ping the neighbor, verify
according to the benchmark NPF neighbors, etc. and you can actually run the commands directly from
DNA center.
So it's very useful.
It gives you reports in the issues that are happening in the network and it also walks you through how
to troubleshoot them as well.
And because DNA center has got system wide view the network, it gives you that global visibility and
what is happening and also troubleshoot rather than having to do it one device at a time.
So it's all there that you can drill down into the health status of network devices and clients.
And as well as seeing what's happening now, you can also view historical information that's useful
to troubleshoot problems, which is happening at.
Random times are issues which occurred in the past, so a screenshot of what you can see here that we
have got a client here.
So this is a users and machine and we can see that they have got intermittent connectivity problems
here.
So there's been a couple of drops and you see the times go in the bottom there so we can view back what's
been happening over time.
We can click in here on the timeline and we can see what the problem is then.
So if this user has been saying that they've had connectivity problems with the network, but it's working
fine now with the traditional networking, then you would just have to wait until the next time it happens
and then go troubleshoot then.
But with DNA sent, or you can go back in time and see what was happening when they actually had the
issue.
Another troubleshooting tool is pathways.
So this is similar to Trace.
Right.
But it gives you more information because that you'll see the IP addresses Pocker is going through,
but you would have to investigate further to learn what those devices actually are and DNA sent, or
it gives you a graphical view of all the network devices that a packet is passing through.
So you specify the source IP address and part of the destination IP address.
Important that you want to test traffic between.
And it will tell you here, Thoughtworks or not, it will should give you more information.
Like if it's if it's an e-mail which is blocking the traffic, it will show you that information here.
So you saw there how to use DNA sent her using the guey, so you don't need any kind of programming
skills, obviously, to do that because it's owned by the user interface for you bought DNA sent or
does also support APIs as well.
So everything that can be done through the Google can also be done via a northbound API.
DNA center also supports East and westbound APIs for integration with other services such as reporting
and analytics servers.
So with SDM, we don't normally talk about East and West APIs, which is just something the terminology
that Cisco use to explain DNA sensor can also integrate with other services as well.
So if we look at our Estienne hierarchy, we can see the DNA center is our SDM controller, so it sits
in the middle.
It can integrate via northbound APIs to other Web based front ends and it's going to use it southbound
APIs, typically Netco and Associates for DNA Center to communicate with the network devices.
OK, so that was everything about DNA Center Ilchi and the next picture for SD access.